
St1Standards	
Xt2Extras	
Rules IndexAnd the rulebooks they belong to
St1	
Standards — From the Standard Rules
About rulebooks  ; About activities  ; Moving or abolishing rules  

Rules governing actions

These rules are the ones which tell Inform how actions work, and which affect how they happen in particular cases.

 persuasion  ... Persuasion rulebook (0 rules)

 unsuccessful attempt by  ... Unsuccessful attempt by rulebook (0 rules)

 before  ... Before rulebook (3 rules)

 instead  ... Instead rulebook (14 rules)

 after  ... After rulebook (1 rule)

Rules added to the sequence of play

These rulebooks are the best places to put rules timed to happen at the start, at the end, or once each turn. (Each is run through at a carefully chosen moment in the relevant top-level rulebook.) It is also possible to have rules take effect at specific times of day or when certain events happen. Those are listed in the Scenes index, alongside rules taking place when scenes begin or end.

 when play begins  ... When play begins rulebook (3 rules)

 every turn  ... Every turn rulebook (0 rules)

 when play ends  ... When play ends rulebook (0 rules)

How commands are understood

'Understanding' here means turning a typed command, like GET FISH, into one or more actions, like taking the red herring. This is all handled by a single large rule (the parse command rule), but that rule makes use of the following activities and rulebooks in its work.

 does the player mean  ... does the player mean rulebook (2 rules)

 reading a command  ... activity (0 rules)

 deciding the scope  ... activity (0 rules)

 deciding the concealed possessions  ... activity (0 rules)

 deciding whether all includes  ... activity (5 rules)

 clarifying the parser's choice  ... activity (0 rules)

 asking which do you mean  ... activity (0 rules)

 printing a parser error  ... activity (0 rules)

 supplying a missing noun  ... activity (4 rules)

 supplying a missing second noun  ... activity (1 rule)

 implicitly taking  ... activity (1 rule)

How things are described

These activities control what is printed when naming rooms or things, and their descriptions.

 printing the name  ... activity (2 rules)

 printing the plural name  ... activity (1 rule)

 printing a number  ... activity (1 rule)

 printing room description details  ... activity (0 rules)

 printing inventory details  ... activity (0 rules)

 listing contents  ... activity (1 rule)

 grouping together  ... activity (0 rules)

 writing a paragraph about  ... activity (0 rules)

 listing nondescript items  ... activity (0 rules)

 printing the locale description  ... activity (4 rules)

 choosing notable locale objects  ... activity (1 rule)

 printing a locale paragraph about  ... activity (9 rules)

How accessibility is judged

These rulebooks are used when deciding who can reach what, and who can see what.

 reaching inside  ... Reaching inside rulebook (2 rules)

 reaching outside  ... Reaching outside rulebook (1 rule)

 visibility  ... Visibility rulebook (1 rule)

Light and darkness

These activities control how we describe darkness.

 printing the name of a dark room  ... activity (0 rules)

 printing the description of a dark room  ... activity (0 rules)

 printing the announcement of darkness  ... activity (0 rules)

 printing the announcement of light  ... activity (1 rule)

 printing a refusal to act in the dark  ... activity (0 rules)

The top level

An Inform story file spends its whole time working through these three master rulebooks. They can be altered, just as all rulebooks can, but it's generally better to leave them alone.

 startup rules ... Startup rulebook (11 rules)

 starting the virtual machine  ... activity (1 rule)

 printing the banner text  ... activity (0 rules)

 turn sequence rules ... Turn sequence rulebook (12 rules)

 constructing the status line  ... activity (0 rules)

 shutdown rules ... Shutdown rulebook (4 rules)

 amusing a victorious player  ... activity (0 rules)

 printing the player's obituary  ... activity (3 rules)

 handling the final question ... activity (4 rules)

How actions are processed

These form the technical machinery for dealing with actions, and are called on at least once every turn. They seldom need to be changed.

 action-processing rules ... Action-processing rulebook (11 rules)

 specific action-processing rules ... specific action-processing rulebook (8 rules)

 player's action awareness rules ... player's action awareness rulebook (4 rules)

How responses are printed

The Standard Rules, and some extensions, reply to the player's commands with messages which are able to be modified.

 issuing the response text  ... activity (1 rule)

Xt2	
Extras — Further rulebooks, from the source or extensions
About rulebooks  ; About activities  ; Moving or abolishing rules  

