This file is not compiled with Entropy....

Items to complete...

o Spaceship entrance and defeat of Tra 'Jan Gore soldier...
o Directional looks...
o Who/What coding...

This that bother me...
o Eating rations...it needs to be one turn I think...or maybe a power cable instead...or maybe multiple power resources

Bug List
o 
o
o
o
o
o

Story Board

SCENE 1 - Prologue - Chrysilya awakens to a dying world...

	Where she walks the land, remembering...

	Battlefield
	Crater
	Geyser
	Bunker
	Scorched Fields
	Smoking Forest
	Edge of City
	Spaceport
	Caledonia

SCENE 2 - Orbit - Chrysilya challenges a Tra 'Jan Gore...

Where she begins the defense of Erta...

	Above Battlefield
	Orbit
	Outside Ship (before stopped)
	Airlock
	Main Cabin
	Bridge
	Outside Ship (Dorsal)
	Outside Ship (Ventral)
	Outside Ship (Port)
	Outside Ship (Starboard)
	Outside Ship (Bow) fore?
	Outside Ship (Stern) aft?

SCENE 3 - City - Chrysilya discovers the truth...

Where she find evidence of treachery...

Chrysilya wonders through the destruction of Ertan City, meeting survivors,
listening to rumour, and eventually location the bookstore. The bookstore is
Zirksus's Ertan HQ and it's protected by various Android technologies that
serve no barrier to Chrysilya. Note here that Chrysilya is/was the only android
that ever lived on Ertan. The Tra 'Jan Gore did not know about her or they
probably would have destroyed her before attacking Erta. There should be some
knowledge gained here that helps Chrysilya pass through the Space Station.

	Sewer
	Sewer North/dead end
	Sewer East/dead end
	Sewer West
	Sewer West and North
	Sewer West and North and North
	Parking Garage
	Staircase
	Office
	Dining Area (lots of bodies)
	Elevator Shaft
	Molten Steel
	Abandon Street
	Bookshop (immaculate condition, protected from bombings)
	Back Room
	Secret Chamber (containing information on spies organized to help Tra 'Jan Gore)

SCENE 4 - Space Station - Chrysilya outwits Zirksus...

Where she battles an evil android and escapes with hope...

Chrysilya allows stolen ship to be pulled into Space Station. She first hides,
then finds her way to the Android section of the Station. She enlists the support
of unknowing Androids, making her way to the Military section of the Station. From
there, she locates a high powered time device. She is also confronted by Zirksus,
another android acting as the senior officer in charge of Tactical Espionage.
Outwitting him for a moment, she is able to return to the Android section and
escape on an Android spy ship. The scene ends with Chrysilya landing in the
protected section of the Ertan City.

	Docking Bay (inside ship)
	Docking Bay (outside ship)
	Docking Bay (hiding behind storage containers)
	Air Vent (move through here automatically until she reaches an apartment)
	Apartment (connection to ships computer for map and location of time devices)
	Android Repair Facility (for more repairs but not 100%)
	Android Lounge (Information about Zirksus and Clearance to Military Section)
	Andriod Port (For ships used by supporting android personnel)
	Tubeway (connecting Android apartments to Military Section)
	Courtyard (Center of station - meet Zirksus, lie about status)

SCENE 5 - City - Past and Future...

Where the past is erased and the future restored...

Using the time device, the spy ship, and the magnetic core of Erta, Chrysilya is able to
reverse time to before the battle. Unfortunately, there isn't a great deal of time and
Zirksus has followed her. The city is alive, the school is there with the past Chrysilya
unaware of what is happening. Somehow, Chrysilya must prevent the war. She must help the
Ertans locate and destroy the currently hidden Space Station probably via the bookstore.

SCENE 6 - Escape Pod - Chrysilya fails again...

Where Zirksus follows Chrysilya back in time and attempts to alert his past self...

Another confrontation between Chrysilya and Zirksus. A duel of wits and needing to be
a rather sophisticated and satisfying puzzle.

SCENE 7 - The Plains - The final battle...

Where the Ertans and the Tra 'Jan Gore decide their futures...

With the Space Station destroyed, the Tra 'Jan Gore is partially blind. The Ertan
need to arm and attack as decisively as possible. With Chrysilya's help, they're able
to locate and destroy all of the hidden bunkers throughout the planet and the invading
Tra 'Jan Gore force abandons the battle. In the critical battle, future Chrysilya is
destroyed, but not before transmitting her memories to past/present Chrysilya.

When future Chrysilya does, the interpreter will 'freeze' for a bit. Then Present
Chrysilya will take over...

SCENE 8 - Epilogue - Chrysilya goes back to school...

Where the dead are buried and the living go on...

Chrysilya is honored at a great ceremony. It ends with her teaching a lesson while
remembering all of the details if the confrontation with the Tra 'Jan Gore.

As each future memory passes through her, it is erased with the present.
