Updated 3/7/07
Prologue
Mid-morning always sees the Grubber's Market at its most crowded. Servants from the aristocratic districts and villagers from outside Toresal crush themselves into the maze of stalls and stretched canvas, hoping to beat the noontime heat and get the farmers' produce while it's still fresh. The press of bodies, the din of haggling and bargains struck – it all makes getting around unnoticed easier, although not necessarily more pleasant. No fewer than half a dozen stall-gazing bumpkins have trod on your feet already this morning. You've kept your mouth shut, though. People remember an urchin who gives lip.
"See anything you like?" asks the woman at the silk stall, with a teasing smile. You smile back. You couldn't afford the cheapest of her cloaks if you nicked ten purses in a morning, as Teisha well knows.
"Oh, these are much too plain," you scoff, even as you gaze wistfully at the bright colors, the beautiful embroidery. Time for a bit of breakfast, you decide, and anyway if you linger too long, people will wonder what a boy is doing shopping for women's cloaks. "Perhaps I'll come back this afternoon, when you've put out your better wares."
Teisha laughs. "Don't be a stranger, Jack."
You make your way through the market, nicking an apple from the fruit stall while its owner haggles with some fat outlander over a bushel of kello fruit, until you reach a quiet alley where you can catch a breath from the crowds and enjoy your breakfast in peace. All in all, just another ordinary day at Grubber's Market.
But the first bite is barely in your mouth before you hear rough voices at the alley's entrance, and in a moment your life is turned upside-down.
The Player
Description: Most people know you as "Jack," a fourteen-year-old street urchin of uncertain means. You are slight of build for a boy your age, though your baggy clothes hide much of your physique. Your hair is ragged and short, a victim of many self-inflicted trimmings. Though usually in need of a good scrubbing, you are an attractive youth, with a softness to your face that makes you seem younger than your years.
Fortunately, it also leads people to underestimate your wiles and resourcefulness, which has caused more than one stallkeeper to call you by your second most common sobriquet, "That Damn Thief!"
Only a few people know you by your real name, and you are pleased to keep it that way.
Apple 
Description: Round, taut, green at the bottom shading up to red near the stem.
Eating or tasting while the soldiers are in the marketplace: No time for breakfast right now!
Eating or tasting after the first scene: Crisp and delicious!
Cloak
Description: Your cloak is made of undyed wool, stained and patched in several places. You wear it in the masculine style, buckled to the side and thrown back over your right shoulder.
Satchel
Description: Your trusty cloth satchel: big enough to hold the things you nick, small enough to not hamper your getaway.
Alley 
Description: This narrow alley is tucked away between a wooden storehouse on one side and the canvas wall of a stallkeeper's tent on the other. It serves primarily as somewhere out-of-the-way for stallkeepers to sweep their garbage into, so it's not exactly the most pleasant-smelling place in all of Miradan, but at least no one is likely to bother you here. You can leave to the southwest.
At night: The shadows in the alley are nearly impenetrable at night. You can barely see your way in the gloom.
Crates
Initial appearance: Several crates are stacked up against the back wall of the alley.
Description: Just ordinary wooden crates, used by merchants throughout Miradan to store and ship goods. There are scores more just like these to be found all over the market.
Taking or pushing: Oof! What's in these things, gold bricks? At any rate, the crates are far too heavy for you to move.
Opening or searching : The crates are all nailed shut.
Climbing on: You nimbly hop up on top of the crates; from there, it's only a short scramble to the roof of the market.
Northwest Junction
Description: This is the northwest corner of Grubber's Market. You can skirt around the edge of the market to the northeast or south, or head into the center of the market to the southeast. A wide, paved road leads north, towards Lord's Keep. You can also duck back into the alley to the northwest.
Fruit Stall
Description: Bins heaped high with bright-colored fruit lend a pleasant fragrance to this end of the market (though by afternoon it will have become a cloying reek that attracts more flies than customers). Aisles between the stalls lead southwest and southeast.
Bins/Fruit (collectively)
Description: Mostly domestic, apples and pears from the city orchards, or brambleberries from the northern counties. A few of the baskets contain more exotic fare: oranges, limes, and kello fruit – even a bushel of bananas from the Kozar Delta.
Kello Fruit: Normally you'd kill for a slice of kello, but these look a bit too green. Not quite in season.
Bananas: You rarely see bananas this far north. These look just about perfect – plump, bright yellow with just a sprinkling of brown freckles.
Food Stall
Description: Baskets bristling with loaves of bread; yellow pyramids of cheese; spiced jerky hanging in bundles overhead – a typical grocer's stall. You can continue along the market's outer ring to the northwest or south.
Eastern Junction
Description: You're near the eastern edge of Grubber's Market. You can travel along the outer ring of stalls to the north or south, or head towards the market's central hub to the west.
Hat Stall
Description: Hats of all styles and sizes hang from scores of wooden pegs, surrounding the stall itself in forest of varied headgear. More stalls lie to the north and southwest.
Hats (collectively)
Description: If you can wear it on your head, it's sold here. Big, flop-brimmed traveling hats; small, leather workman's caps; wide sappans of woven straw from the Kozar delta; fancy, feathered hats for courtly balls; and even a few ordinary bonnets.
Exotic Gems Stall
Description: The shelves of this stall are lined with black velvet cloth, across which are spread dozens of jewels in exotic colors and cuts, all glittering in the dusty sunlight..Other stalls lie to the west and northeast.
	Gems (collectively)
Description: Some of them are loose stones; others are set in finely wrought rings and necklaces. Most of them were probably illegally smugged from over the western mountains, which is why they're cheap enough to be affordable by anyone in Grubber's Market. Still, they're far, far out of your price range.
Monkey
First time player enters Exotic Gems: Suddenly you hear a commotion from the back of the stall: the crash of a display case hitting the ground; shouts and curses from the stallkeeper; and a horrific, gibbering shriek. 
"Come back here, you flea-bitten thief!" yells the stallkeeper, and for a panicked moment you think he means you. Then you see something small and gray dart up to the roof of the stall… it's just a forest monkey, probably someone's pet running loose. And it's clutching one of the stallkeeper's necklaces in its tiny black fist.
The monkey turns and screeches back at the stallkeeper, dodges a clumsily thrown dirt clod, and scampers up the nearby support pole.
Initial appearance (up on the pole): The monkey is here, bouncing up and down on the wire a few feet away.
Description: It has silvery fur and black mask-like markings on its startlingly human face. It seems to regard you with a mixture of curiosity and amusement – as though you were some strange little animal whose antics it found entertaining. [if it has the necklace] It grips the necklace protectively, tight against its tiny chest.
If you are holding the banana: The monkey sniffs the air excitedly as you come closer, and emits a hopeful chirp.
Taking the necklace from the monkey: The monkey screeches at you and backs away.
Trading the banana for the necklace/giving banana to the monkey: Chattering with glee, the monkey lunges for the banana. In its haste, the necklace slips from its grasp – and you barely manage to snatch it up before it falls to the market below.
The monkey, meanwhile, tears the banana peel open and scarfs down the soft white fruit in a matter of moments, after which it saunters off down the wire, hooting contentedly.
Necklace
Description: It's a beautiful gem, clear blue with a deep indigo star in its center, set in a silver-wrought starburst on a silver chain. You could easily trade it for any piece of merchandise in the market. Or you could… you know… wear it.
Weapons Stall
Description: The weaponsmith's wares hang from wooden racks along the sides of this stall, a grim picket fence of down-hanging blades. You can find less intimidating stalls to the east and northwest.
Weapons/Swords/Knives (collectively)
Description: Swords and knives, mostly. Nothing fancy; just sharp, practical, and deadly.
Leather Goods Stall
Description: You pause here for a few deep breaths – you've always enjoyed the smell around the leather merchant's stall. More stalls lie to the north and southeast.
Smelling (anything): The smell of leather reminds always makes you think of long traveling in dangerous lands. It's the smell of adventure.
Leather Goods (collectively)
Description: This merchant deals in riding equipment – reins, harnesses, stirrups, and the like. A full riding saddle sits on proud display near the back. There are a few items of clothing for sale as well, mostly various styles of scabbards and belts.
Herb Stall
Description: The herb stall is usually a quieter place. Customers like to browse, poke their noses into the various jars and pouches, and judge the potency of a potential purchase at their leisure. You've never understood the fascination, yourself. More interesting stalls are to the south, and the market opens out a little to the  north.
Herbs (collectively)
Description: The shelves are lined with row upon row of little clay jars, all filled with leaves, seeds, roots, stems, and buds, all ground, crushed, pulped, shredded, or just left whole to dry up and shrivel. It smells interesting, at least. You suppose.
Support Post
Initial Appearance: Next to the herb stall stands a thick wooden post.
Description: It's one of several posts that support the large canvas awnings stretched above the market square. You can see one of the main support wires running from the top of this post to the top of the high post rising up from the center of the market.
Climbing the post: You could shimmy up there easily enough, but it would attract too much attention.
Candle Maker Stall
Description: The heat and fumes from the candle maker's tallow pots make this stall an unpleasant place to loiter. Still, people need candles, and customers seem to be buying them as fast as the stallkeeper can dip them. Other stalls are to the southeast and southwest.
Candles (collectively)
Description: The candles hang in pairs from long wooden dowels, connected to each other by their common wick. Most of them are tallow, fast-burning and cheap, but near the back there are boxes of premade wax candles in different colors.
Tallow Pots
Description: The candle merchant keeps a pair of small cauldrons at a constant boil, filled with bubbling, yellowing goop.
Rope Stall
Description: One thing you can say about the rope stall: you'll never spend a moment wondering what's for sale. Rope, and lots of it, thick and thin, knotted or loose, in heaps and in coils, stacked on the floor or hanging from pegs. More stalls are to the northeast and southeast, and the market opens out a bit to the northwest.
Rope
Description: Coarse braids of scratchy hemp, stiff and tough.
Pottery Stall
Description: The wares at the pottery stall are spread out on the ground or set on low benches, forcing browsers and passers-by to step carefully around them. There are more stalls to the northwest and southwest, or you can head out to the market's edge to the east.
Pottery (collectively)
Description: From tall, narrow, precariously balanced urns to round, gourd-like jars to shallow bowls, each is uniquely shaped, yet they all share a common, graceful curve. Most of them are made of fired clay from the Westlands, decorated with colorful glazes.
Silk Tent
Description: Teisha has done well enough for herself that her "stall" is actually a full-on tent. You can enter the tent to the north, or continue on to other stalls to the northeast or northwest.
Inside the Silk Tent
Description: The fabric walls lend a bit of privacy and quiet from the crowds outside (in addition to keeping dust off the merchandise). Beautiful silk garments hang from racks on either side. The main market lies to the south. A narrow gap in the back leads behind the tent.
Garments (collectively)
Description: Gowns, robes, capes, cloaks, shawls – their hems rippling with the slightest movement of air, shimmering with that soft, liquid glow that only silk has. You sigh. Dressing up like a boy is definitely fun, but looking at Teisha's wares always makes you yearn for something a little bit more… elegant.
Teisha (in the Silk Tent)
Initial Appearance: Teisha sits on a stool in back, smiling distractedly.
Description: Teisha is a short, busty woman with a smile as warm as her tumbling red curls. She likes you, and she knows that you'd never nick from her stall, so she lets you hang around the stall and look through the merchandise. She also knows your big secret (guessed it the very first time she caught you loitering at the tent flap), which is a little bit scary and a little bit of a relief – it's nice to be able to let your guard down and talk to someone outside the Maiden's House.
Idle Actions (at random): Teisha hums quietly to herself. / Teisha smiles at you wamly. / Teisha brushes a loose thread from the sleeve of one of her gowns. / Teisha toys with her measuring cord, spinning it idly.
Entering the tent (first time): "Hello, Jack," says Teisha. "Change your mind about that cloak?" Then she gets a look at your face and frowns. "Something the matter, sweetie? You look spooked."
Entering the tent (subsequent): Teisha looks up. "Hi Jack. Hanging in there?"
Talk to Teisha about the mercenaries (first time): "Mercenaries searching the market?" Teisha peeks out through the front flap. "Brigid help us," she mutters, glancing back at you. Although you know she cares about you, you also know that Teisha is a smart, practical woman, and first and foremost she is worried about losing her customers. "All right," she sighs, letting the flap fall closed. "You don't need to tell me if they're after you. I don't want to know. There's no room for you to hide in here, but if you want to you can slip out that way—" she points to the narrow gap in the back wall of the tent— "and I'll pretend I never saw you."
Talk to Teisha about the mercenaries (subsequent): She makes a face. "I don't like it, Jack, but there's nothing I can do. Just try to stay out of their way."
Talk to Teisha about the monkey: Teisha rolls her eyes. "That pesky thing came in on with the fruit vendor's wagon yesterday and just made itself at home. Now it's all over the place, bothering everybody. Fortunately, it likes shiny things more than it likes women's clothes. Oh, and bananas. The little rodent loves bananas. Constantly drops the peels on the roof of my tent, too."
Talk to Teisha about the necklace: "That monkey got one of Hathid's necklaces?" Teisha laughs. "Ha! Serves the old huckster right. You should try giving it a banana, see if it'll trade."
Talk to Teisha about the cloak: "I can't just give you one, sweetie," Teisha says, sadly. "These silks are expensive, and I have to pay my suppliers and make a living for myself. If you have coin, or something worth trading, maybe I can cut you a deal. Otherwise…"
Trade something (not the necklace) for cloak: Teisha shakes her head and hands the [whatever] back to you. "This just won't do," she says, not unkindly. 
Trade necklace for cloak: Teisha's eyebrow shoots up when you show her the necklace, but she manages to hide her excitement with the coolness of a professional haggler. "Not top quality," she mutters, "but very nice…" She gives you a look. "Now, tell me the truth, Jack, you didn't just steal this from somewhere, did you?"
You shake your head proudly. It's not exactly a lie.
"All right." The necklace disappears into one of Teisha's pockets. "Let's see…" she starts searching through the clothes on the racks, looking for something in your size. "This should fit. I think it suits you, too." She holds out a girl's cloak, simple but elegant. "What do you think?"
It's beautiful. Eagerly you nod your agreement.
Teisha smiles. "Then it's yours."
Wearing cloak in Teisha's presence (first time): Teisha leans over and adjusts the fit, plucking at the fabric where it hangs from your shoulders. "I was right," she says. "It brings out your eyes."
Leaving by the back exit (first time): Teisha holds the back flap back as you duck through. "Be careful now…" she says, "…Jacqueline."
Leaving by the back exit (subsequent): "Careful out there," calls Teisha as you duck through the back again.
Silk Cloak
Description: It comes down to your ankles, a simple drape of soft, dusky green with silver trim. You're wearing it in the feminine style, forward over both shoulders and clasped under your chin.
Support Post (located at Fruit, Weapon, Gem, and Herb Stalls, and East Junction)
Initial Appearance: Nearby stands a thick wooden post.
Description: It's one of several posts that support the large canvas awnings stretched above the market square. You can see one of the main support wires running from the top of this post to the top of the high post rising up from the center of the market.
Climbing the post: You could shimmy up there easily enough, but it would attract too much attention.
Center Post (as seen from Rope, Silk, and Pottery Stalls)
Initial Appearance: Rising up behind the stall is a tall wooden post.
Description: The central post that holds up the system of canvas awnings stretched over the market square. It rises up from the midst of a cluster of stalls in the middle of the market, to a height of about twenty feet. Thick, taut support wires stretch from the top of the post to the four cardinal directions.
Doing anything to the post when not right next to it: The stalls surrounding the center post are backed up tightly against it. You'll have to find away behind them to get to the post.
Center Post (room)
Description: This is an empty space formed by the backs of three stalls and Teisha's tent, meeting at the corners to form a cramped little square. It's barely big enough to stretch your arms out in. Right in the middle is the base of the huge central support post, which rises up a good twenty feet from here. You can duck back into Teisha's tent to the south.
Center Post (the object itself)
Description: It's huge, almost too big to put your arms around. Way up at the top, you can see wires stretching out in each of the cardinal directions.
Climb Post: You're totally hidden back here, so there's no one to stop you from climbing. By the time you're high enough for people to see you, you're also high enough that no one will notice anyway; no one ever bothers to look up in the Grubber's Market. After a minute or so of grunting and sweating, you reach the top.
Top of the Post
Description: Perched atop the high central post, you can look out over the whole market square. To the north, Lord's Road heads out of the city towards Lord's Keep. Commerce Street and the rest of the city beckons to the east. In every other direction the city is surrounded by rolling meadows and farmlands.
Attached to the top of the post are four thick, braided anchor cables, stretching away in the four cardinal directions. Their other ends are tied to four smaller support posts around the perimeter of the market, far below.
Sliding down cables (with bare hands): The cable is too steep for you to climb down, but you could slide down one if you had something you could loop over it and hang onto.
Sliding down cables (with rope): You loop the rope over the cable and push off from the support post. Almost immediately, you realize this isn't going to work: the rope is too thick, too stiff and hard to hold. Halfway down your grip fails, and you land with a crash in the middle of the [room where player ends up].
Sliding down cables (with belt): You wrap one end of the belt around your hand and sling the supple leather over the anchor cable. Then, after giving it one more good yank to test your grip, you push off.
The wind is exhilarating as you zip down the line to the ground below. Several people look up, including the mercenaries. Shouts ring out and fingers point. You hit the support post with your feet, let go of the belt, and drop to the ground next to the [room where player ends up], slightly breathless. Not everyone saw where you landed – most people are still staring up at the wires. You've only got a few moments while the guards' chins are still in the air. Better make the most of them.
Outer Market Roof 
Description: The tiled roof of the storehouse is steep, but there's just enough purchase for you to scramble up to the top and get a look around. From here you have a good view of the market's northwest junction and the gate to Lord's Road heading north.
Trying to go anywhere other than down: Not a good idea; the rooftops of the buildings surrounding the market are steep and slick, and the tiles have been known to come loose and fall off. It's precarious enough just staying here in one spot. If you're to make your escape, you'll have to make it down on the ground.
Event – Mercenaries arrive at the Grubber's Market
The following dialogue plays out over the first several turns. If the player remains in the alley, she hears muted voices but no details. If the player climbs up the crates to the Outer Market Roof, she can hear what the mercenaries are saying. Eventually, the dialogue stops when the mercenaries spread out to canvas the market, and the chase puzzle begins, with events unfolding as normal as soon as the player leaves the Alley.
Attempt to leave Alley while dialogue is going: Something – an intuition? – tells you it would be a good idea to stay out of sight for the moment. Maybe if you got some elevation, you could hear better.
Initial Appearance of mercenaries (visible from Outer Market Roof): A group of tough-looking mercenaries has gathered at the Northwest Junction. One of them is barking orders at the others in an angry voice.
Description of the mercenaries (collectively): They're not Lord's Guards, that's for sure. They wear no insignia, for one thing. Their arms and armor are mismatched, ugly, and scarred – not an unfit description of the men themselves, either. Also, while the Guard would be concerned with keeping the peace in Grubber's Market, these bravos look ready to clobber anyone who gets in their way, and maybe burn down a few stalls while they're at it.
So what are they doing here, you wonder? And come to think of it, where are the Lord's Guard, anyway?
Heard from Alley, first turn after game begins: The voices continue. You can't quite hear what they're saying from here, but there is a grim, ugly tone to them that speaks of dangerous doings.
Note: you can't listen to the mercs from the roof on the first turn after game begins, because you have to spend that turn climbing up the crates.
Heard from Alley, second turn after game begins: The voices continue. You make out the phrase, "…spread out…"
Heard from Roof, second turn after game begins: "…we know he skulks Grubber's most mornings, so spread out quick, cover all streets from the square," growls one of them, evidently the group's leader.
Heard from Alley, third turn: The voices continue. You make out the phrase, "…knives covered…"
Heard from Roof, third turn: The leader spits on the dusty ground. "Keep your eyes open and don't take guff. But for the love of Barek's ball-sweat, keep your tempers and your knives covered unless you really need em. Ain't bein paid to toss the locals."
Heard from Alley, fourth turn: The voices continue. You make out the phrase, "…stay out of sight…"
Heard from Roof, fourth turn: "And keep sharp!" the leader snaps. "Remember this is a kid we're lookin for. Kids move fast, stay out of sight, slip through crowds easy. I find out later he got away under your nose, I'll have it off!"
Suddenly, that bit of apple you swallowed a minute ago turns into a cold, hard chunk in your belly.
Heard from Alley, fifth turn: The voices continue. You make out the phrase, "…got all that?"
Heard from Roof, fifth turn: "Now, everyone memorize the description." The leader pulls a dirty, folded bit of parchment from his belt and squints at it. "Short brown hair," he reads, haltingly. "Green eyes. Slight of build. 'Tween seven and eight spans high." He holds his hand out flat, at what happens to be exactly your height. "Wears a gray cloak."
He refolds the parchment and jams it back into his belt. "You dims got all that?" 
The others nod.
Heard from Alley, sixth turn: Someone barks, "Okay, go!" You hear the jingle of mail and buckles as several heavy pairs of boots tromp past the alley entrance. You're not sure what just happened, but something tells you that it can't be good.
Heard from Roof, sixth turn: "Okay, go!" barks the leader, and the mercenaries set out in several directions, moving at a brisk walk. Two of themselves position themselves at the gate to Lord's Road, leading out of town; the others enter the crowded market and start shoving their way through the suddenly flabbergasted crowds.
Your heart sinks. This is definitely not good.
Event – Dealing with mercenaries in the Market
Initial Appearance of a mercenary in a Grubber's Market location: One of the mercenaries is nearby, scanning the crowds.
Description of a mercenary: Rough, and ugly, with dirty clothes and a mean, scarred face. A serious-looking sword hangs at his hip, and a long knife is buckled at the small of his back. He eyes the passing shoppers boldly; the shoppers, for their part, keep their heads down and try to give him a wide berth.
Doing anything to the mercenary when he hasn't noticed you yet: You resist the foolish impulse, reminding yourself that what you want is for them to not catch you.
After staying in one place with a nearby mercenary for too long: Suddenly the mercenary does a double-take. "Hey, you there!" he yells, and starts shoving his way towards you.
If you haven't run after one turn: A rock-hard fist closes around your upper arm, instantly cutting off your circulation. "Gotcha!" the mercenary leers.
If you don't break free after two more turns: The leader of the mercenaries soon arrives, followed by two more of his men. They take your other arm as their leader smiles. "Good work, dims. Got ourselves a nice little commission with this one." And before you can react, he takes a sack of black cloth from his belt and jerks it down over your head.
Everything goes dark. You can't breathe. You struggle, but you can no more break the iron grip on your arms than you could uproot a tree. The men holding you curse. Dimly, you hear shouts from the crowd – someone protesting this rough treatment of a child.
"Don't worry, m'lady," laughs the mercenary leader. "We'll treat her nice an gentle. Like this, see?"
Something huge and heavy crashes into your head, and the rest of your senses are ripped away.
[You have died.]
Trying to run while the mercenary has a grip on you: You pull and struggle, beat on the mercenary's arms with your fists and claw his skin with your fingernails, but the man is just too strong.
Attacking a mercenary after he's grabbed you: Thinking quickly, [one of] you kick the mercenary in the shin. [or] you elbow the mercenary as hard as you can, aiming below the belt. [or] you spit at the mercenary's face, and a gob of spittle lands right in his eye. [or] you scream your head off. People from two stalls away stop what they're doing to see what the commotion is, and when the mercenary clamps his hand over your mouth, you bite down hard. [at random] "Argh! Dammit, you miserable runt—" the mercenary's grip on your arm loosens, and you twist away. You're free!
Running away after you've successfully attacked the mercenary (or before he manages to grab you): You dash away through the crowd, weaving between strolling customers pushing your way through the thickest knots of people. The mercenary pounds after you, yelling and shoving people out of his way, but he's too big and too slow, and you quickly manage to lose him.
Stealing a knife from a mercenary who hasn't seen you: You tiptoe up behind the oblivious mercenary. Your heart is pounding, but the trick to successful nicking is not to dither about it. With one smooth, practiced movement you slip the knife from its sheath, then dart off in the opposite direction, hiding your new prize under your cloak.
Stealing a knife from a mercenary who's grabbed you: Desparately, you start grabbing and pulling at the mercenary's clothes, hoping to get free by getting in close. Your hand grasps something smooth and heavy on the mercenary's back. With a jerk, it pulls free. 
"Dammit, he's got my knife!" shouts the mercenary.
Stealing a knife when you've already got one: You've already got one knife – don't press your luck.
Attacking a mercenary with the knife: You jab the point of the blade into the mercenary's enormous bicep. It's a clumsy attack, but it does the trick – the mercenary instantly lets go and steps back, pressing his hand against the wound.
Event – Escaping the Grubber's Market
Going north from the Northwest Junction: You can't get out that way – two of the mercenaries are loitering near the gate that leads out to Lord's Road. They haven't seen you yet, but you'd never get by without their noticing.
Going east from the Eastern Junction: The ideal escape would be to head east, to Commerce Street, and lose yourself in the maze of the city. But a pair of mercenaries have planted themselves by the entrance to the square, and are eyeballing everyone who passes through. You'll need a disguise or a distraction – preferably both – to get past them.
Going east from the Eastern Junction when you're in disguise (but haven't slid down the wires): You try to keep your head down and not walk to fast, but the mercenaries are being thorough. One of them points at you and says, "Check that one!"
The other one steps into your path. Before you can react, he bends down and stares into your face, then rips the bonnet off your head. "It's the boy!" he shouts, grabbing your arm.
[scene continues as above]
Going east from the Eastern Junction when you're in disguise and have just slid down the wires: You keep your head down and walk at a steady pace – not too fast, not too slow. The mercenaries posted at the market's entrance aren't paying attention: they're looking over your head, trying to see the commotion under the awnings.
You hold your breath as you walk past, close enough to touch one of them. No one stops you. Five more steps…four…three…
And then you are past, out of Grubber's Market and into Commerce Street and the inner city.
You made it!
Knife
Description: Not some decorated dandy's blade, this. The steel is dull and tarnished, and honed to a wicked edge. An eight-inch-long, deadly practical tool for stabbing people.
Selling the knife to the weapon trader: The stallkeeper takes the weapon from you and turns it over in his large, scarred hands, frowning. He looks at you, then he looks over at one of the mercenaries swaggering around at the far end of the market, bullying the other market-goers and scaring away business. Then he smirks.
"Here you go," he says, reaching into his apron pocket and tossing you a coin. "Spend it wisely."
Coin
Description: It's a silver coin, thick and heavy. Stamped on one side is the Toresal coat of arms; on the other, a crescent moon. It's enough to buy something inexpensive, if you're not too picky about getting change.
Stallkeeper (same at every stall, with minor variations)
Description: The stallkeeper looks nervous and irritable. Armed thugs stomping around the Grubber's Market is not good for business.
Talking to the Stallkeeper: The stallkeeper waves you off. "Take it somewhere else, kid."
Buying something from the stallkeeper: The stallkeeper barely glances at the coin before dropping it into his purse. "Sure, sure," he mutters, handing you [whatever]. "Here you go. Now beat it, all right?"
Nicking something from a stall: Better not. Not only do the mercenaries have everyone on edge, but a good third of the normal shopping crowd have been scared off, which makes it that much easier for the stallkeeper to keep an eye on you. And if you got caught, the uproar would bring the mercenaries right to you.
 
