Detail Design TextFyre, Inc. Copyright © 2007 – All Rights Reserved
World: 	Orphan
Series:		Orphan, Princess, and Queen
Episode:	Orphan

Team:
Original Design:	David Cornelson Writers:		Michael Gentry Programmers:		David Cornelson First Draft Testers: Alpha Testers: Beta Testers: Finalization Testers: Editors:		Fahmida Cater, Bob Feest, Bill Kolomyjec Graphic Artist: Flash Artist:

Modification History
Who
When
What
David Cornelson
30-Nov-2006
Original Draft
David Cornelson
21-Dec-2006
Cleaned up per Mike Gentry’s comments
David Cornelson
02-Jan-2007
Detailed world elements
David Cornelson
04-Jan-2007
Updated Synopsis
David Cornelson
10-Feb-2007
First Draft of Scene I

Table of Contents
 TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u  HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052326" Map of Miradan	 PAGEREF _Toc171052326 \h 5
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052327" The World of Orphan	 PAGEREF _Toc171052327 \h 6
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052328" The People	 PAGEREF _Toc171052328 \h 6
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052329" Ascension	 PAGEREF _Toc171052329 \h 6
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052330" Magic	 PAGEREF _Toc171052330 \h 6
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052331" In People	 PAGEREF _Toc171052331 \h 6
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052332" In Things	 PAGEREF _Toc171052332 \h 7
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052333" Physics	 PAGEREF _Toc171052333 \h 7
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052334" Astronomy	 PAGEREF _Toc171052334 \h 7
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052335" Recent History	 PAGEREF _Toc171052335 \h 7
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052336" Before The Story Begins…	 PAGEREF _Toc171052336 \h 9
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052337" Royalty Reference	 PAGEREF _Toc171052337 \h 10
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052338" The Players	 PAGEREF _Toc171052338 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052339" The Player Character	 PAGEREF _Toc171052339 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052340" Jacqueline Toresal (aka Jack)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052340 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052341" Major Non-Playing Characters	 PAGEREF _Toc171052341 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052342" Bobby	 PAGEREF _Toc171052342 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052343" Baron Fossville (aka The Baron, Fossville, the Dark Hunter)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052343 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052344" Mercenaries (group of men)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052344 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052345" Hester Rodop (aka the Magistrate)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052345 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052346" Jacobs	 PAGEREF _Toc171052346 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052347" Olmer	 PAGEREF _Toc171052347 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052348" Darens	 PAGEREF _Toc171052348 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052349" Other Major Characters	 PAGEREF _Toc171052349 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052350" Duke William Toresal (aka Lord of the Keep, the Old Lord, the Prince, the Queen’s Son)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052350 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052351" Minor Non-Playing Characters	 PAGEREF _Toc171052351 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052352" Teisha	 PAGEREF _Toc171052352 \h 11
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052353" Angeline, Clara, Fiona, Theresa, Shannon (Maiden House)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052353 \h 12
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052354" Old man Holstenoffer (In Butchery)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052354 \h 12
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052355" Olgan Minor (Armory)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052355 \h 12
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052356" Mrs. Sandler (Jewelry)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052356 \h 12
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052357" Pieter (Jewelry)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052357 \h 12
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052358" Rudolph (Jewelry)	 PAGEREF _Toc171052358 \h 12
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052359" Chorus Brothers	 PAGEREF _Toc171052359 \h 12
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052360" The Screenplay	 PAGEREF _Toc171052360 \h 13
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052361" SYNOPSIS	 PAGEREF _Toc171052361 \h 13
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052362" Game Features	 PAGEREF _Toc171052362 \h 15
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052363" Time Keeping	 PAGEREF _Toc171052363 \h 15
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052364" Details	 PAGEREF _Toc171052364 \h 16
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052365" Scene I – Grubber’s Market	 PAGEREF _Toc171052365 \h 16
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052366" Map	 PAGEREF _Toc171052366 \h 16
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052367" Rundown	 PAGEREF _Toc171052367 \h 16
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052368" Notes	 PAGEREF _Toc171052368 \h 17
 HYPERLINK \l "_Toc171052369" Design	 PAGEREF _Toc171052369 \h 17

Map of Miradan

The World of Orphan
In this world there exists a single planet where humans live and magic is extremely rare. The world has large bodies of water and at least one land mass as of this history. This continent is known as Miradan and is loosely ruled by the Kingdom of Jais Del Brin.
The People
The people of Jais Del Brin are generally farmers, fisherman, and townspeople. Commerce is rugged and local, and the Kingdom generally functions without much taxation. Royalty includes the King and Queen, Princes, Princesses, Dukes and Duchesses, Earls and Countess, Barons and Baronesses.
Ascension
The Kingdom generally selects new Kings based bloodlines, but this is married to the fact that the vast majority of Kings have sired strong, popular, and healthy sons to ascend to the throne. The key here is popularity. The Kingdom has rarely had to think about succession and when it has, it has generally been between two strong choices, not a complete lack of strong choices.
In the absence of a strong and popular blood prince, the laws of the Kingdom state that the King or Queen must choose a successor. In the event of the death of the King and the Queen before a successor has been named, all of the primary royals will select a Regent to handle Kingdom affairs until a successor is selected by vote. Voting is weighted in that Princes and Princesses get ten votes, Dukes and Duchesses get five votes, Earls and Countesses get three votes, and Barons and Baronesses get a single vote. But again, the general public’s opinion is taken into consideration before a successor is selected. A special People’s Regent role has always been filled, but never used but for ceremony. The role in the case of an unclear successor is to poll the people and make known their wishes. Obviously, in certain circumstances, this could become a very dangerous and powerful role.
Magic
In People
Magic is known to exist and is treated respectfully by the general population. They consider it either lucky or unlucky to have good or bad things happen due to magic respectively. Everyone always dreams of some minor magic to help their daily lives, but almost no one goes in search of it. Life is hard and there is no time for such endeavors. Those people that have discovered a talent for magic generally keep it to themselves and help or hurt those as they would with any other talent. There is no general commerce in magic, but if a magic user is available, some may intrude to ask for a favor and offer some token in return. Magic tends to develop in women more than men, although an analysis of those with “talent” would show that girls are encouraged to look within and boys are not, so never develop whatever ability they may have. Girls with talent are considered blessed or cursed, depending upon their nature (if a girl is a trouble-maker, she’s cursed…if a girl is kind, she is considered blessed).
Most magic is minor. Very little “grand magic” is know about or has ever been seen. The common uses of magic are to mend clothes, cure minor ailments, fix broken tools, and the like. On occasion a magic user will have more interesting abilities.
In Things
There are artifacts that are imbued with magical ability, giving the owner of the artifact some magical ability, albeit focused and limited.
Physics
The general physics of this world are the same as Earth.
Astronomy
The night sky of this world is full of stars. One section of the sky that is seen in summer is a strip of very bright stars known commonly as “The River of Light”. It also has two moons, one noticeably large than the other. They are known commonly as Big Sister and Little Brother.
Recent History
The Realtic Kingdom has been seemingly healthy for hundreds of years, with successions going without any problem. But the last two kings have ruled poorly and the most recent king has left the land to an elderly queen, who only late in life realized she would need to rule and determine a successor.  Although her children and grandchildren may vie for the crown, their particular fates have produced a great deal of concern from the public and the Lord’s council as to their ability to rule.
Succession rights are simple where blood is concerned, but with so many inline, the fate of the kingdom is not so simply decided. It’s almost a game or a sport. Whoever shows the Queen that they deserve it, and then garners public approval, will become the heir to the throne. Because the Kingdom has had such a peaceful history, the public would balk at a heavy-handed ruler.
Orphan is the story of a young girl that is at the top of the blood lines, along with many other potential successors. Her father was the last son born of the current queen, with seven siblings in front of him. Unfortunately, his fate was decided by Baron Fossville. Having seen the coming turmoil, he wished to vie for the thrown himself, and turned to dark means to attain it.
In the 756th year of the Kingdom, Baron Fossville managed to slowly poison Duke Toresal, making it look like a mysterious illness. What Fossville did not know until taking over the Duke’s keep and lands was that the former Lord had bore a child with a woman in secrecy. Since the Duke was already married, the secret remained buried for years. But before his death, Duke Toresal left written claim to all of his estates to his only daughter. He had loved the woman that bore her, but could not openly recognize her or their child…a mandate from the Queen herself, since the woman was not of royal blood.
But his will left the door open for young Jacqueline, and this is her story….

Before The Story Begins…
Your name is Jacqueline, but everyone outside of the Maiden House knows you as Jack. A few people have come to know you well enough to know that you are a girl and some have figured it out on their own. A few suspect that you are special and some think it's because you are the daughter of a royal personage. No one knows for sure. There is proof of the matter within your father’s personal papers and some people in the royal government know. The fact that you exist and there is no other clear heir to the local lands (much less the Kingdom’s throne) is the intrigue into which you were born. If you were to be recognized a royal heir it would cause a great deal of upheaval and if you were not recognized, things would probably progress more smoothly, albeit in a fashion the crown is not comfortable with. It would elevate a family that is highly ambitious, placing their heirs in a position to marry into the throne.

Your sponsor has in fact been your father by blood. He loved the woman that bore you to him, but as a mistress, there was no way to bring her or you to court. For the first ten years of your life, your father watched as you grew. He made sure that some of the women in Maiden House were well-educated and paid them to tutor you.

In your tenth year, Lord Duke Toresal died of a mysterious illness. He left a legacy of goodwill among the people, but the succession to his lands was clearly going to Baron Fossville, a man who hired mercenaries for mysterious businesses and who had clear ambitions for the royal court. Fossville’s machinations were coming to fruition as a royal ball was planned at which he would be betrothed to one of the Queen’s daughters.

You are a fourteen year old girl on the verge of becoming a woman. Your mother died when you were born and you do not know who your father was. You do know that someone sponsored your early upbringing at Maiden House. Even though they care for you and feed you, and even though you do appreciate everything they did, you always felt you were destined for something else. You learned to read and write; a great deal of history of the land, to speak and act properly, and how to be respectful. You even were given the gift of a solid self-esteem. You possess all of the things that most orphans never even know about.

Eventually you decide that the stodgy lifestyle of the Maiden House was more than you can bear and you began taking to the streets at the age of nine. Wearing trousers and a boy’s shirt and continually cutting your hair off with a blade, you instinctively realized that certain doors were open to you pretending to be a boy.

The maidens counted it a phase and although they worried if you were out all night, they never questioned where you'd been or what you'd done. It was as if they accepted your maturity and decision making almost entirely without question. But they did look out for you too. More than once you caught one of the younger maidens "accidentally" bumping into you.

For the next three years you manage to befriend other orphans, although of less luck. They happily show you how to beg, steal, and sneak around town without ever getting caught by the magistrate or his soldiers. One of the beggars you befriend is a boy named Bobby, who appeared on the streets shortly after your tenth birthday. Never questioning the appearance or disappearance of any of the orphans, you don’t realize that he is in fact a spy for the royal court, and in some ways, your protector.
Royalty Reference
King, Queen 
Prince, Princess 
Duke, Duchess 
Prince, Princess (if they have royal parentage)
Earl, Countess 
Baron, Baroness 


The Players
The Player Character
Jacqueline Toresal (aka Jack)
Jacqueline is a fourteen year old girl coming of age in a rugged town on the outskirts of the Kingdom.
Major Non-Playing Characters
Bobby
Bobby is an orphan, fifteen years old, and seems to do things for various people for money, but you can never quite figure out what he does. You don't know where he sleeps, but he always seems "taken care of". Well, sometimes he looks a wreck, but that's rare.
Baron Fossville (aka The Baron, Fossville, the Dark Hunter)
Mercenaries (group of men)
The mercenaries are generic men with tunics, pants, swords, helms. They all speak in broken language laced with common slurs. They aren’t very smart either.
Hester Rodop (aka the Magistrate)
The magistrate, Hester Rodop, is a very bad man. He will try very hard to catch you doing something wrong and if he does, it will not go well for you. You could wind up in a cell with bad men or you could wind up with a hand cut off. 
Jacobs
Jacob’s is the son of a wealthy merchant. He’s a big brutish man. Though he is slightly insane, he will talk about anything to anyone.
Olmer
Olmer is a typical town bum. On some days he’ll work and some days he’ll steal. He’s never seen without Darens.
Darens
Darens is another typical bum. He’s always with Olmer.
Other Major Characters
Duke William Toresal (aka Lord of the Keep, the Old Lord, the Prince, the Queen’s Son)
Minor Non-Playing Characters
Teisha
A girl in Grubber’s market that is always causing you trouble. She resents your upbringing in the Maiden House. Although there is no blood relationship, the two of you look somewhat alike, if not a perfect match.
Angeline, Clara, Fiona, Theresa, Shannon (Maiden House)
Angeline, Clara, Fiona, Theresa, and Shannon are the women in the Maiden House. They are all widows that look out for each other. They do various odd jobs for town folk and farmers who pay them in food and bare necessities. They know many things about the town and surrounding area, although they will very rarely offer details without some prior knowledge.

These women are the help system. They will offer information on how to solve problems within the game as you learn about them. So when you find a door you can't unlock (unlikely), they will know how to help you.
Old man Holstenoffer (In Butchery)
The butcher will talk incessantly while you are in his shop. Some of the things he says will give you some clues to puzzles.
Olgan Minor (Armory)
Mrs. Sandler (Jewelry)
As it turns out, Mrs. Sandler knows who your mother was and liked her. She also is in possession of something that belongs to you; a diamond and ruby necklace.
Pieter (Jewelry)
Rudolph (Jewelry)
Chorus Brothers
When rumors start floating about your possible inheritance, the Chorus brothers are more than willing to lend you money, considering it an excellent investment.



The Screenplay
SYNOPSIS

A young orphan girl pretending to be a boy discovers people are trying to kill her, that she is royal born, and that she must save herself by finding out as much information as possible, as well as proving that she is worthy of being recognized as the heir to the local lands.

Jack is chased by mercenaries and does not know why.
Jack has opportunities to talk to people about the environment.
Butcher
Baker
Armory
Moneylender
Jeweler
Clothier
Jack meets Bobby and is taken on a wild chase through town and into the woods, escaping into the secret tunnel of Lord’s Keep. They find about the Queen’s visit and the upcoming ball where the Baron will marry into the Royal Family.
Jack goes back to town to sleep at Maiden House, where the women hide her in a secret room. Here she learns about her mother.
Jack tries to get back through town to the woods and is captured. Bobby is beaten up badly in an adjacent cell. He whispers about secrets in Black Gate Estate, the in-town residence of Baron Fossville. Jack meets crooks that help her escape and tell her where to hide in the sewer.
Jack is chased into sewer system and hides.
Jack comes out of hiding and gets into Black Gate Estate. She finds out about her father, including the letter that recognizes her as heir.
Jack hears that Bobby has been hung and returns to Maiden House. The women open up about everything and tell her that the Red Gate Estate (previously her father’s residence) is her home now, but dangerous to go there.
Jack gets into Red Gate Estate with key from maidens and one of the maidens coming with her. She finds artifacts about her father. She also finds fresh clothes and a bath. One of the maidens helps her bath and suggests she buy a new gown and to sneak into the ball to seek audience with the Queen.
Jack visits the moneylender and with the letter is able to take money out.
Jack visits the clothier and jeweler to get ready for ball. Pieter decides to accompany her.
Jack visits the armory and buys a stiletto knife and hides it in her bodice.
Jack and Pieter cannot enter Lord’s Keep directly as the mercenaries are all standing guard.
Jack shows Pieter the secret entrance. On their way through the woods, an odd old woman approaches them. She cryptically offers Jack a potion. The potion makes Jack’s hair grow out. They enter the Keep and filter into the ball room, uninvited. The Queen has not arrived yet.
The mercenaries start filtering into the Keep.
They begin to recognize Jack and Pieter disappears.
The Baron appears at Jack’s side and holds her arm tightly. He walks her to the War Room.
Jack enters the War Room. Pieter is slumped on the floor, bound hand and foot. Several mercenaries glare at Jack menacingly. The Baron has the door guarded and sits down. He asks Jack what you’re doing. Jack shows him the letter. He seems nervous, but confident.
The Baron burns the letter in the fireplace and picks up his sword. He approaches.
Suddenly there is an argument outside. A fight is heard.
The door is knocked down and Bobby comes charging in. He fights a dual with the Baron.
Jack releases Pieter with your knife. He takes it and begins fighting mercenaries.
The Baron knocks Bobby down and runs out of the room.
The mercenaries follow, as do Pieter and Bobby.
The Princess comes into the room from a secret passage. She has more mercenaries with her and they kidnap Jack.
To Be Continued…






Game Features
Time Keeping
The setting must have night and day characteristics.

Room locations should note light regarding the sun and moon where appropriate.

Room locations should note crowdedness based on the time of day. For instance, the markets are crowded during the day and empty at night.

We should be able to easily enough implement "wait for darkness" or "wait until morning". This could potentially be an extension.

Details
Scene I – Grubber’s Market
Map
 EMBED Visio.Drawing.11  
Rundown
You have no money. You are wearing a wool cloak. You have an apple. You may steal a knife from a mercenary. You may trade the knife for nearly anything in the market including herbs, fruit, candles, rope, pottery, silk, belt, boots, coin, small gem, or a hat. You will always be able to steal another knife, but never hold more than one at a time. The monkey wants a banana. The monkey has a necklace and will trade for a banana. The monkey runs across the postal wires all the time. If you’re at the Exotic Gems stand, he will come down to its roof and taunt you with the necklace. Teisha, in the silk stand, will give you a silk cloak for the necklace. You can get a hat by trading your cloak. You can get a belt by trading a hat. You can get fruit with coin. You can never go east to the Eastern Edge or you will be caught and have to escape back to the west. You can go up the center post and slide down to any of the outer posts. When you slide down, the guards will see you. You should not be wearing the cloak yet. When you go down from the n, w, or s post, you should wear the cloak and undo your hair so that you look like a girl. Now you can leave the market before the men recognize you.
Notes
Should the monkey be able to block you from sliding down? If so, how should we get rid of the monkey? This _has_ to be a funny response. I can just feel it.
If you simply turn into a girl and start walking directly out of the market, the mercenaries at the eastern edge are so loose that they’re pretty much accosting everyone and will catch you. In order to get past them, they must be on edge from seeing you traverse the wire from the center post.
Design
Before Play Begins: (prologue)
Player is walking through market near silk stand. She says “Hi” to Teisha, noticing silk cloaks she can’t afford. She walks to fruit stand and buys an apple. She stops in the alley to eat the apple.
When Play Begins:
The Player is named Jack or Jacqueline Toresal. She looks like a boy, but is a girl.
Jack is sitting in an alley about to eat an apple. She hears loudly talking men walking towards her from the north. The men will arrive in the alley in several turns.
The player is carrying:
Object: Apple.
Object: Cloak. (wool, masculine)
Object: Satchel. (cloth)
Prologue – Alley
Description: narrow, dark, garbage strewn.
Object: Crates. (piled up, empty, immovable)
Command: listen to men [men are loud, but their conversation is not discernable]
Command: pick up crate [too heavy]
Command: climb crates or go up [player moves to roof of outer market]
Command: wait [men get closer-louder, after several turns, men will arrive]
Command: north [men appear and grab you before you can leave alley]
Command: southeast [player moves to Northwest Junction of Grubber’s Market]

NOTE: Grubber’s Market at night is a single large empty location. You can traverse northwest to the alley, north to Lord’s Road, or East to Commerce Street. During the day it has the following mapped layout:

Grubber’s Market – Mercenaries
There are a random number of mercenaries actually chasing you. There is a group of them on Lord’s Road and at the Eastern Edge.
You generally are able to slip past them, but they grab you once in awhile. You can kick, bite, scratch, claw, punch, hit, or spit at them to escape.
When you are in the arms of the mercenaries, one of the men will drop a knife. You may pick this up before escaping. Only one knife can be held at a time.
You will always have time to look around and do business at a stand. But they will constantly be grabbing you and the frequency of this should increase to give of the feeling of them “closing in”.
Eventually they catch you and the game has to end. There’s just no way to get around the fact that you have to solve this puzzle.
Commands: (need text responses)
Kick:
Bite:
Scratch:
Claw:
Punch:
Hit:
Spit At:
Scream:
Grubber’s Market – Northwest Junction
Description: Stands to northeast, south, southeast. Alley back northwest. Lord’s Road is north, but you can see mercenaries loitering in that direction.
Grubber’s Market – Fruit Stand
Description: Stands to southwest and southeast. Northern post is here. You can see the wire from the center post to the northern post.
Command: [trade knife for banana]
Grubber’s Market – Miscellaneous Food
Description: Stands to northwest and south.
Grubber’s Market – Eastern Junction
Description: Inner stands to west, outer stands are north and south. The eastern edge is east, but is clearly occupied by mercenaries. The eastern junction pole is here. You can see the wire from the center post to the eastern junction post and then from the eastern junction post to the eastern post.
Grubber’s Market – Hat Stand
Description: Eastern Junction is to the north, with stands beyond the bend while more stands are to the southwest.
Command: [trade cloak for hat] (note: since you already have a hat, this might be another interesting moment for humor. Maybe some confusion with the seller)
Grubber’s Market - Exotic Gems Stand
Description: Stands are to the west and northeast. The southern post is here and you can see the wire from the center post to the southern post.
Command: [trade banana for necklace] (note: this might allow for some humor if you have to coax the monkey into the bargain)
Grubber’s Market - Weapons Trader Stand
Description: Stands are to the northwest and east.
Command: [trade knife for coin] player receives one coin, good for purchasing fruit, rope, candle, herbs, or food.
Grubber’s Market – Leather Shop
Description: Stands are to the north and southeast.
Command: [trade hat for belt]
Grubber’s Market – Herb Stand
Description: Stands are to the north and south. The western post is here and you can see the wire from the center post to the western post.
Grubber’s Market – Candle Maker Stand
Description: Stands are to the southwest and southeast. You can see the top of the center post and the wires running in all four cardinal directions.
Grubber’s Market – Rope Stand
Description: Stands are to the northeast and southwest. You can see the top of the center post and the wires running in all four cardinal directions.
Grubber’s Market – Pottery Stand
Description: Stands are to the northwest and southeast and the eastern junction is to the east. You can see the top of the center post and the wires running in all four cardinal directions.
Grubber’s Market – Outside Silk Stand
Description: Stands are to the northwest and northeast. This stand is deeper than all the others and allows entrance. You can see the top of the center post and the wires running in all four cardinal directions.
Command: [enter, in] player moves to Inside Silk Stand.
Grubber’s Market – Inside Silk Stand
Description: Silk items all over.
Command: [talk to Teisha] Teisha is your friend. She also knows that the men are looking for you, but does not know why. But she also can’t give away any silk. She does comment about the monkey and its necklace though.
Command: [trade necklace for cloak]
Command: [north] player moves to Center Post.
Command: [exit, out, south] player moves to Outside Silk Stand.
Grubber’s Market – Center Post
Description: You can see the backs of three stands and a slight entrance into the back of the silk stand to the south. You can see the center post and the wires running in all four cardinal directions.
Command: [climb post, up] player easily crawls up post since she has young and athletic.
Grubber’s Market – Top of Center Post
Description: You can survey the entire market, Lord’s road and Lord’s Keep to the north, Commerce Street to the east, and farmlands in all other directions. You can also see the wires going down to the four outer posts.
Command: [slide down (north/south/east/west) wire with rope] this results in disaster. The rope is too stiff and hard to hold. Jack is dumped onto a stand and causes an uproar.
Command: [slide down (north/south/east/west) wire with belt] this results in a successful trip down the wire to the lower post and down to the nearest outer market stand. The guards see you slide too and will yell out commands. If you slide down the east wire, the guards will catch you instantly. If you’re dressed like a girl when they catch you, the game must end.
Grubber’s Market – Eastern Edge
Description: Grubber’s market is to the west, along with the searching mercenaries. Commerce Street beckons to the east.

Miscellaneous Text
Bobby will show you how to get into the Lord's Keep, but in doing so will lose his life.

You will meet Bobby in the Lord's Market after escaping the soldiers. If you ask him about stuff, he will tell you a lot. Eventually you need to ask him to help you get into Lord's Keep. He will tell you to meet him when the moon is at its height.

When you meet him, he tells you he knows you're a girl. You can kiss him, but that's all.

He leads you into a wooded area and then a clearing. In the clearing is a small fountain with a mermaid on top. He climbs on top of the fountain and inserts a penny into the mouth of the mermaid and jumps down. He then pushes the fountain and it swivels aside to reveal a staircase.

Down the staircase is a passage that leads to a secret opening in the Lord's Keep. You can explore Lord's Keep at night when everyone is asleep. If you try to go in during the day, you will be captured and hung.

On this first trip though you decide to return to the village and Bobby accompanies you. You did not know that Bobby took a valuable necklace from the Keep. When you get back to the village, the magistrate and mercenaries are hunting for Bobby. They capture him and reportedly hung for his crime. You will hear about it the following day. But Bobby will have left you a present. Olmer will give it to you the next time you see him in the sewer.

The present will be a simple wooden box but inside will be a record of payments to the Maiden House, though no names are mentioned, the records clearly show payments starting fourteen years ago and ending two years ago. The current Lord of the Keep is an un-welcome cousin of the old Duke, who passed away two years before. Now that you think of it, the Maiden House did seem to suffer some event back then and the maidens began working much harder than they had in the past. This was obviously to compensate for losing the funds that had been coming from Lord's Keep. But why would the old Duke pay for your well-being?
